Story Recapped here.
Today, I’m going to explain a horror, mystery,
and thriller film called “The Cabin in the
Woods.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
At a laboratory facility, engineers Steve
Hadley and Gary Sitterson discuss their plans
for an annual event to be held that evening.
They’re approached by Wendy Lin, head of
the chemistry department, who tells them that
Stockholm, who’s also holding the same event,
has failed.
It’s now up to them and another competing
country, Japan.
The men reassure Lin that they won’t mess
it up.
Meanwhile, at a nearby university campus,
Dana Polk prepares her bag for her upcoming
weekend trip with her friends.
Her best friend, Jules Louden, helps her pack
and shows off her new blonde hair.
Jules’s boyfriend, Curt Vaughan, helps them
carry their bags.
All three hop into the camper van and are
joined by their stoner friend, Marty Mikalski,
and a transferee student, Holden McCrea.
Curt takes the steering wheel as they make
their way to his cousin’s cabin in the woods.
Unbeknownst to the group, a man watches them
leave, contacts someone on his earpiece and
tells them that the camper has already left.
At the lab, Hadley and Sitterson arrive at
the control room and meet Alex Truman, who
supervises the event.
On the way to the cabin, the group stops by
a rundown gas station for a refill.
They meet the owner, Mordecai, who is hostile
yet tells them the directions.
They pass through a mountain tunnel, unaware
that they’re now entering an invisible dome.
The group finally arrives at the cabin and
picks their rooms.
Holden goes into his room and spots an eerie
painting.
Feeling disturbed, he takes it down and discovers
a one-way mirror behind it.
He shows the group the mirror, and Marty suspects
that it must be from the pioneer days.
Holden offers to switch rooms with Dana, and
she thanks him for being decent.
At the lab, Hadley and Sitterson are watching
every room through the cameras they’ve hidden
throughout the cabin.
Lin arrives and reports that Jules’s blood
levels are normal, and they’re planning
to increase her libido.
The employees at the lab make their final
betting choices for the night.
Truman asks them how they can make a betting
contest out of this if they control the outcome.
Handley and Sitterson tell him that they only
get the lambs into the arena; everything that
happens from there on is by choice of their
own free will.
The group gets the party started by bringing
out the booze and turning on the music.
They play truth or dare, and Jules decides
that it’s Dana’s turn.
Just as Dana chooses to dare, the cellar door
behind blasts open and interrupts their game.
Jules dares Dana to check it out.
Not one to chicken out, Dana brings a flashlight
and explores the cellar.
It’s full of knick-knacks from the previous
owners.
The group joins her in the basement and explores
the mysterious room.
Dana picks up a journal, Jules spies on a
locket, Holden opens a music box, Curt takes
a mysterious puzzle, and Marty spots a couple
of film reels.
Dana turns their attention to the journal
she found, and the group huddles around her.
The diary belonged to Anna Patience Buckner,
who lived in 1903 with her abusive and sadistic
family.
She starts to say something in Latin.
As she says the last word, the corpses of
the Buckner family rise from a nearby grave
and drag their way to the cabin.
At the lab, the maintenance department cheers
as they win the betting pool.
It turns out that they betted that the Buckners
would be the one to eliminate the group.
Lin tells Truman that everything they have
in the dungeons is remnants of the old world
when the gods roamed the Earth and monsters
and magic had the upper hand.
As the night goes on, Marty tells Dana that
something weird is happening.
He doesn’t understand why Jules is acting
like a dumb blonde when she’s in pre-med
and why Curt has suddenly turned into a high
school jock when in fact, he’s a sociology
major on a full academic scholarship at the
university.
He shares his theory that there might be puppeteers
controlling them, but Dana dismisses his points
to the joint that he’s smoking.
Meanwhile, the couple starts making out in
the woods, unaware that a room full of men
is watching them.
The engineers turn on the pheromone mists
to increase their sexual appetites and light
the way to a clearing where the couple can
have their little outing.
Truman, together with Hadley and Sitterson,
watch as Jules and Curt make love on the ground.
Right on cue, the Buckners arrive and stab
a dagger into Jules’s hands.
Jules screams as Curt pins down one of the
undead.
He gets impaled on the back but manages to
punch down the corpse.
Jules runs towards her boyfriend, but she’s
chained down and dragged by another zombie.
The corpses surround her and hold her down,
while Curt can only watch in horror as they
cut off her head with a saw.
The engineers say a little prayer at the lab
as they turn on the underground mechanism
and drain Jules’s blood into a pipeline
below to fill a stone tomb.
Back at the cabin, Marty smokes another joint
to keep his mind off the voices that he’s
hearing.
He starts to freak out and decides to take
a leak outside.
Curt appears, all bloodied and beaten up,
and drags him outside just before one of the
corpses can take another one of them down.
He tells the group that Jules is gone and
they should start barricading all the doors
and windows in the cabin.
Dana refuses to leave and opens the door,
only to face another zombie who tosses Jules’s
severed head.
Dana screams as the boys push against the
door.
She comes to her senses and helps them lock
down the door.
Curt tells them that no matter what happens,
they have to stay together.
Hadley sighs in frustration as he listens
to the conversation.
This isn’t ideal for them, so Sitterson
presses a button that releases gas through
the cabin vents that lowers cognition.
Curt inhales the gas and suddenly changes
his mind.
He tells the group that they should split
up so that they cover more ground.
One of the zombies breaks down the door, and
the group separates and hides in their rooms.
The engineers press another button and lock
the bedroom doors.
Marty is in full panic mode and knocks off
a lamp as he closes a window shut.
As he looks at the broken lamp, he sees a
tiny hidden camera.
The color is drained from his face as he pulls
a long cable hidden within the walls.
Marty’s suspicions are correct.
Someone is watching them.
The window behind bursts open as John Buckner’s
corpse drags him outside.
Marty narrowly escapes his knife.
He hits him with his thermos and runs away.
The corpse throws his knife at Marty’s back
and pins him down.
Marty screams as the corpse drags him back
to his grave, and his blood is spilled and
drained into the underground stone tomb.
The ground rumbles as the gods accept the
second sacrifice.
Meanwhile, Dana is trapped in her bedroom.
Another undead makes its way to her window,
and Holden rescues her by breaking the one-way
mirror.
They find another door on the floor and escape
through it.
Dana realizes that it’s the torture room
from the journal, and there’s no way out.
One of the corpses catches Holden and drags
him outside, but she manages to stop it by
driving a crowbar right into its neck.
She grabs a knife and starts stabbing the
undead.
Suddenly, a door opens in the room and reveals
Curt.
He leads them through another door, and they
finally escape the cabin.
They pile into the camper, and Curt steps
on the gas so that they could escape this
hellhole.
Meanwhile, Japan has failed in its sacrifice
to the gods.
Now it’s up to Hadley and Sitterson.
The duo panic as they see the camper heading
towards the mountain tunnel and realize that
there’s no cave-in.
The demolition team was supposed to initiate
an explosion a few minutes earlier.
Sitterson runs to the pyrotechnics department
and fixes the wires himself.
He finally gets the operation going, and an
explosion erupts in the tunnel just before
the group can make their way out.
They quickly back away and manage to exit
safely.
Curt curses out of frustration as they realize
that they’re only one jump away from their
escape.
They come up with a plan, and Curt decides
to jump with his motorcycle and then run to
town for help.
Dana begs Curt to be careful as he steps on
the gas.
He backs away and fully revs towards the gap
between the two roads.
Curt makes the jump and almost makes it until
he smashes straight into the invisible force
field.
He is instantly killed and is thrown into
the deep trench together with his wrecked
motorcycle.
Dana screams for her friend as Holden takes
her away into the camper.
The gods have now received their third sacrifice.
In the camper, Dana realizes that Marty was
right all along.
Someone is watching them and controlling their
every move.
They will never escape here unless they find
a way to reveal who’s behind this.
Suddenly, one of the corpses appears behind
Holden and stabs him through the throat.
The gods have now received their fourth sacrifice.
Dana screams as the camper goes out of control
and they’re thrown into the lake.
She swims up for air and manages to escape.
Meanwhile, everyone is celebrating in the
control room.
Hadley tells Truman that the ritual is now
complete.
The virgin’s death, in this case, Dana being
the virgin, is optional.
It doesn’t matter whether she lives or dies;
the main thing is that she suffers.
It’s now up to fate.
Dana swims up to the surface and takes deep
breaths as she realizes all of her friends
are dead.
The corpse has now emerged and starts strangling
her.
Everything that’s happening is being viewed
in the control room as the employees start
having a party to celebrate their win.
Sitterson approaches the demolition team and
jokes with them for almost failing them.
The team insists that they didn’t get their
order because there was a power glitch from
upstairs.
One of the college students must have messed
up with the wires they have hidden in the
killing field.
But who can it be when all of them, except
Dana, is dead.
Suddenly, a call interrupts their party.
Hadley stops the celebrations as he answers
the call.
It’s the Director.
It turns out one of the students is still
alive, and the ritual isn’t complete.
Meanwhile, as Dana crawls her way to one of
the loose boards, the corpse collapses behind
her.
She turns around and sees Marty, who’s still
alive.
She grabs the board and slams the undead back
into the lake.
The two make a run for it, and Marty drags
her inside one of the graves.
He closes the steel door before any more of
the corpses can kill them.
Dana can only look in horror as she sees a
tunnel and the dismembered remains of one
of the corpses.
She tells Marty that she’s the only one
who survived as he tinkers with the control
box.
It turns out he was the one who created the
power glitch that the demolition team was
talking about.
Dana tells Marty that he was right all along.
He shows her the elevator that he discovered
and tells her that someone sent those zombies
after them.
If they want to escape, this is the only way
out.
They hop into the elevator with the severed
zombie arm.
The elevator takes them deep into the dungeons
as they come face to face with more monsters
in glass cages.
Dana realizes that whoever is watching them,
these people made them choose how they die
based on the things they were playing within
the cellar.
She screams and pounds her fists on the glass
as she realizes that she’s the reason why
all of her friends are dead.
Meanwhile, in the control room, all hell has
broken loose.
Sitterson sends security to shoot Marty so
that the ritual can be completed.
Dana must die last so she will not be touched.
Lin then informs Hadley that whatever Marty’s
been smoking, it’s been making him immune
to all their chemical adjustments.
The elevator doors soon open, and Dana and
Marty come face to face with an armed guard.
The zombie’s arm distracts the guard, and
he starts shooting at it.
They take him out and grab his gun and the
zombie’s knife.
They find themselves in a hallway of elevators,
and a man starts speaking through the speaker
system.
The man tells them to give up and allow themselves
to be sacrificed.
The two hide in one of the operator rooms
as a whole squad starts firing at them.
Dana spots the controls and hits the warning
button.
All the elevators open and release an army
of monsters who instantly takes down the squad.
In a matter of minutes, the demons take over
entire floors, eliminating and torturing every
employee they see.
Hadley, Sitterson, and the rest have locked
themselves in the control room.
Their defenses have been overridden, and there
is no way out.
Dana and Marty quickly get out of the room
and escape through a hole in the hallway.
Back at the control room, the monsters have
managed to break down the steel door and take
Truman down immediately.
Hadley fires his gun as Sitterson puts in
the code for the escape hatch leading downstairs.
An explosion erupts, and Hadley is blasted
into the air and is eaten by a merman.
Sitterson opens the hatch and escapes as Lin
is taken away by a giant octopus.
He runs through the dark hall and is stabbed
in the chest by a terrified Dana.
As he sits down dying, he tells Dana to do
the right thing and kill Marty.
Marty hands her the gun, and they go further
into the tunnel until they find themselves
inside a chamber surrounded by five stone
tombs with etchings filled with their friends’
blood.
The Director reveals herself and finally tells
them the truth.
Dana, Marty, and the rest of their friends
are part of an annual ritual sacrifice.
The whore, who is corrupted, dies first, then
the athlete, the scholar, the fool, and the
virgin.
If they don’t make the sacrifice, the gods
who rule the Earth will rise again and create
havoc, pain, and suffering.
She tells them that the sun is coming up in
eight minutes, and if Dana wants to survive
and save the rest of humanity, she must kill
Marty.
With a trembling hand, Dana raises the gun
at her friend.
Marty can only stare in disbelief as he realizes
what she’s about to do.
As Dana contemplates shooting her friend,
a werewolf appears behind her and bites her
on the neck.
She throws away the gun as Marty fends off
the Director and picks it up.
He shoots the werewolf and sends it out, whimpering.
The Director punches Marty, and a struggle
ensues.
This time, the corpse of Patience Buckner
appears with her ax.
The Director grabs the gun and sees her chance,
but Marty manages to pull her on top and shield
himself as the corpse hacks the ax into her
head.
He gets away and pushes the two into the raging
depths below.
Marty backs away and joins Dana on the steps
as the room crumbles around them.
She apologizes to him for even considering
shooting him, but Marty reassures her that
he understands.
They don’t think humanity is worth saving,
and they share one last joint as the end of
the world starts around them.
The chamber crashes as a giant hand erupts
from the depths and obliterates the lab.